# Consistency is very important for success in trading

_The path of a trader is not an easy one, it is usually a bumpy ride with more or less successes and
failures on the way. Sometimes everything goes smoothly and one successful trade is followed by
another, while other times it is just pain and suffering from watching a series of losing trades and
the account being blown up._

Every strategy has periods when it works almost flawlessly and generates profits, as well as periods
when the trader has to deal with a series of losses. In general, however, it can be argued that when
profitable trades outweigh losing trades (either in number or volume), the strategy is profitable in
the long run.

## Quick profits provide no guarantee of success

The profitability of a strategy is therefore not only determined by the size of the profit it
generates, but also by its performance during good and bad times. In other words, consistency of
results is an important aspect for any strategy. This can be defined in different ways. One can
check the last 100 trades, or assess the results for each quarter and from there determine whether
the strategy is profitable or not over the long term.

Having consistency is very important, as we can see in the examples of the following two strategies.

**Strategy A:**

\- A trader executes 1 trade a day using the same position size for 5 consecutive days.

\- Account size: 100 000 USD

\- 5 trades

\- Profit 50 000 USD (50%)

\- Drawdown 50 000 USD (50%)

**Strategy B:**

\- A trader executes 1 trade a day using the same position size for 100 consecutive days.

\- 100 trades

\- Profit 30 000 USD (30%)

\- Drawdown 10 000 USD (10%)

Although Strategy A makes much larger profits per trade, Strategy B performs better over a longer
period of time with a lower drawdown, making the strategy less risky and more consistent.

Every trader should realise as soon as possible that the pursuit of quick profits increases the risk
of a strategy and is not the path to long-term sustainable trading. In Strategy A, it can be clearly
seen that it experienced a drawdown of 50% in just one week, which may sooner or later lead to an
account reset.

## New Consistency Score in Account MetriX

Prop Trader has launched a new metric within the Account MetriX app called the “Consistency Score”,
to enable traders to track their consistency. This indicator measures the trading consistency of
each trader, with a higher value indicating a higher consistency of trades, which could help our
traders to achieve better results, which should be the goal for anyone who wants to stay in the
trading business for a longer period of time.

The formula for calculation of the Consistency Score is simple: (1 – (absolute value of the most
profitable or losing day / absolute result of all trading days)) x 100%.

**Example:**

Trader's results:

1. Day 1: +100
2. Day 2: -500
3. Day 3: +800

![img](/files/Consist-priklad-1.jpg)

The biggest daily profit was 800.

The absolute sum of all trading days is 100 + 500 + 800 = 1400.

Consistency Score =(1-(800/1400))x100 = 43%.

## How the Consistency Score works

If a trader’s Consistency Score is 0%, it means that all of his profit was made on a single day.
Therefore, it is very difficult to evaluate the consistency and profitability of a strategy based on
the results based on only one day of trading.

If the Consistency Score is 60%, it means that the trader’s most successful trading day accounts for
40% of his total profit.

**Example:**

Trader's results:

1. Day 1: +250
2. Day 2: -350
3. Day 3: +400

![img](/files/Consist-priklad-2.jpg)

The biggest daily gain was 400.

The absolute sum of all trading days is 250 + 350 + 400 = 1000.

Consistency score =(1-(400/1000))x100 = 60%.

According to the long-term analysis of our traders, we have arrived at the following distribution of
results. A value above 80% is considered to be very good because this value indicates that the
strategy is likely to be successful in the long term. Prop Trader values traders who can maintain a
consistent approach in addition to profits. A great benefit for consistent traders is our Scaling
plan as well as the adjustment of the profit sharing ratio to 90% in favour of the trader.

However, traders do not have to worry about their success or whether meeting the requirements to
pass the Evaluation Process will depend on their Consistency Score. A successful completion of the
Evaluation Process is based on completing the basic Trading Objectives of Prop Trader and the
Consistency Score is for informational purposes only.

Some traders may feel that the Consistency Score may limit or discriminate against certain
strategies, but this is certainly not its purpose. Striving for consistent results does not limit
any trader from achieving above average returns. Yes, sometimes a trader may have an exceptionally
successful trade in which he realises an above-average return, which may harm his Consistency Score.
However, trading is not about one gain, and maintaining consistent results over a long period of
time may not have a negative effect on the overall result.

When a trader trades successfully over a long period of time with an RRR of 2:1, for example, he may
have an exceptional trade where he holds a profitable trade longer and reaches an RRR of 4:1. Since
his strategy is set at an RRR of 2:1 (we assume he has tested it for a long time and knows what he
is doing), this may be a lucky accident that may not be repeated and further attempts at such super
trades may end in a series of unnecessary losses. It is not uncommon for unnecessary interventions
in a working strategy in the pursuit of faster profits to lead to losses and, in the worst case, an
account wipeout.

A consistent approach, on the other hand, can save a trader’s account if he experiences a prolonged
period of losses. When a trader decides to “take revenge on the market” and starts opening
unnecessarily large positions in pursuit of higher profits, he may face an account deletion, in the
case of an Prop Trader Challenge or an Prop Trader Account.

This is best illustrated by an example. Below we can see the results of an Prop Trader Account with
a Consistency Score of 80.61%, and after a period when the trader did not do well, he almost reached
the Maximum Loss limit. If he had traded larger positions, or started opening these larger positions
after a series of losses, he would have certainly violated this important condition.

![img](/files/Consist-graf.png)

But thanks to his consistent approach, he managed to get out of the drawdown and eventually made a
great profit of $17,000. It is also clear from the above example that a trader does not have to have
a completely smoothed yield curve with minimal fluctuations at all times to achieve a high
Consistency Score.

## Conclusion

Prop Trader is looking for serious traders who are able to manage risk responsibly and achieve
consistent results over a long period of time. From our years of experience, we know that a
consistent approach differentiates traders who follow a trading plan from those traders who only
make profits through luck. We hope this new feature will help all traders to achieve their long-term
goals.

---

### Frequently asked questions and answers

- **What is Prop Trader trying to achieve with the Consistency Score?** At Prop Trader, we
  appreciate traders who take trading seriously. Not only do we like to see profits, but we also
  like to see them made consistently over a period of time and based on a significant number of
  trades. The Consistency metric is only informative and does not affect the outcome of the trading
  account results.

- **How is the Consistency Score calculated?** The Consistency Metric is calculated using the
  following formula: (1 - (Highest Profit or Loss Day / Absolute Sum of all Trading Days)) x 100%.

- **Does the Consistency Score affect the outcome of my Prop Trader Challenge / Prop Trader
  Account?** No, it does not. You only have to follow the Trading Objectives and avoid forbidden
  trading practices.

- **Are you planning to implement a rule based on the Consistency Score in the future?** Currently,
  the Consistency Score is only informative.
